#summary Changes between releases
#labels Featured

For specific instructions to upgrade between versions, see UpgradingVersions.

= Changes =

== 2.1 ==

  * Major refactoring to the internal code to bring it current with the released version of CDI.
  * List URLs can now be any URL that points to the SubEtha HTTP server.
  * Replaced the Lucene direct-access code with Hibernate Search.
  * Updated all third-party jars to modern versions.
  * Fixed a longstanding bug deleting lists.
  * A handful of miscellaneous bug fixes.

Lots of internal changes, few external changes.  The most important change is that SubEtha now runs on the "current" version of Resin (>= 4.0.9).

You will need to rebuild the fulltext index (from the Site Status page).  See UpgradingVersions.

== 2.0 ==

 * For 2.0, SubEtha was ported to Resin 4.0 (see WhyResin).
 * Many architectural changes were made but very few features were added.
 * We've moved to a new home at google code.

 * Here are some of the changes to note:
   * Added fallback smtp host for a new integration option
   * Site admins can change user's names
   * List owners can change subscribed user's names but only if the names are empty
   * Updated libraries (Hibernate, Logging, SubethaSMTP)
   * Updated packaging and docs
   * Developed and tested on MySQL and PostgresSQL
   * Allow "sent on behalf of" emails (ie. Sender: and From: are different)
   * Denser encoding for shorter VERP envelope sender length
   * Minor HTML changes on various pages.
   * Added Hessian remote protocol support (removed "WS" remoting)
   * Indexing and Cleanup start shortly after deployment, and periodically as before
   * Much smaller memory footprint, and much quicker startup (20s on dev machines vs minutes for JBoss)

If you are upgrading from a previous version, these changes *must* be
made to the database (these are for MySQL, your database data types may be
different):

{{{
  ALTER TABLE Mail CHANGE fromField sender TEXT;
  ALTER TABLE Mail CHANGE envelopeSender senderNormal TEXT NOT NULL;
}}}

== 1.0.2 ==

 * Workaround problem with building ear on JDK6 and deploying on JDK5.
 * Updated Velocity from 1.4 to 1.5.
 * Added integration documentation for Sendmail and Qmail.
 * Include PlumberBean in order to allow mail-service.xml overrides for unit testing.
 * Reverted URL redirection changes for proxied subetha installations.

== 1.0.1 ==

 * Fixed problem with the AppendFooterFilter not properly encapsulating the footer in multipart mime messages.
 * Updated to JBoss 4.0.5.GA from the JEMS 1.2.0 GA installer.
 * Ant build system has been rewritten from scratch.
 * The ready-to-run (RTR) release is now based off a copy of JBoss that we maintain in our <a href="http://guest@subetha.tigris.org/svn/subetha/jboss/trunk/">svn repo
 * Added a new filter mode for archive rendering (mail web view).
 * Filter exceptions no longer stop processing of the message.
 * Messages without subjects were throwing exceptions if the SubjectFilter was enabled.
 * Added ability to download/export messages.
 * UI tweaks and improvements.

== 1.0 ==

 * Fixed a bug rendering the permission error page.
 * Fixed a problem unsubscribing from lists.

== 0.9.6 ==

 * Workaround for a major Hibernate bug introduced in JBoss 4.0.5.GA.

== 0.9.5 ==

 * Now expects JBoss 4.0.5.GA.
 * The list of lists page should show # of subscribers and # of archived messages.
 * Added the ability to post a new or reply to a message on a list via the web UI.
 * Show confirmation screen when mass subscribing.
 * Allow linefeed termination of emails when mass subscribing.

== 0.9 ==

 * Preliminary SOAP web service API exposed.
 * Many minor UI improvements.
 * Now works with the "new" JBoss 4.0.4.GA that has API change.
 * Added small google adsense.
 * The search indexer wasn't running properly.  It is now.
 * The cleanup thread was not running properly.  It is now.
 * Empty archive searches send a stack trace.
 * UI for search results have been cleaned up. In addition, we now display the search score as a value from 1 to 10.
 * Site admins can delete mailing lists.
 * List admins can now delete messages from list archives.

== 0.8 ==

 * List administrators can now edit subscriber options.
 * Administrator removal now works.
 * Stabilized the order of many lists (subscriptions, email addresses, etc).
 * "Your mail held" notifications now set at most once per day per sender address.
 * Old held mail and held subscriptions are now periodically purged.
 * Fixed a problem changing the postmaster address.
 * Added $archiveUrl context variable to the AppendFooterFilter.
 * You can now remove any email address as long as you have more than one.
 * Various minor UI improvements.

<strong>NOTE:</strong>  The names of some of the roles have changed.  You must update your database before SubEtha will function.  Shut down the JBoss instance running SubEtha and run the following queries:

{{{	
update RolePermission set perm='EDIT_SUBSCRIPTIONS' where perm='UNSUBSCRIBE_OTHERS'
update RolePermission set perm='VIEW_ARCHIVES' where perm='READ_ARCHIVES'
update RolePermission set perm='VIEW_NOTES' where perm='READ_NOTES'
}}}
	

== 0.7 ==

 * Implemented fulltext searching for archives.
 * Improved integration documentation.
 * More UI cleanup.
 * Several bugs fixed.

<strong>NOTE:</strong>  The database schema changed slightly.  To upgrade from 0.6 or before, follow these instructions <strong>before deploying the new code</strong>.

 * Shut down SubEtha.
 * Rename column Mail.dateCreated to Mail.sentDate.
 * Add column Mail.arrivalDate of same type as Mail.sentDate.
 * update Mail set arrivalDate = sentDate
 * Set Mail.arrivalDate to NOT NULL.

== 0.6 ==
 * Much internal refactoring.
 * More useful information on list overview page.
 * Archive threading cleaned up.
 * User interface cleaned up.
 * SMTP port now overridable with system property.
 * Several bugs fixed.

== 0.5 ==

 * Initial release