#labels Featured
= How to Install SubEtha =

These instructions describe setting up a single, standalone instance of SubEtha. If you wish to run a cluster you should consult an expert. You should have have installed JDK 1.5 and whatever database you intend to use.

= Install Steps =
  # Install Resin 4.0.0 (or greater)
    The remaining documentation referrs to the directory in which you installed Resin as ${resin.dir}.
  # Create the database; you will reference in your connection string below. You may create database named "subetha" if you like.
     Note that SubEtha will create the database tables for you when it runs for the first time.
  # Set up the JDBC data source. Edit ${resin.dir}/conf/resin.xml ; add the following section (/resin/cluster/host)
  
  {{{
	<resin>
		<cluster>
			<host>

				<database jndi-name="jdbc/subetha">
					<ping>true</ping>
					<ping-interval>0</ping-interval>
					<ping-query>select 1;</ping-query>

					<driver type="org.postgresql.Driver">
						<url>jdbc:postgresql://localhost/subetha</url>
						<user>subetha</user>
						<password>subetha</password>
					</driver>
				</database>
				
			</host>
	  </cluster>
	</resin>
  
  }}}

    Switch the username/password and hostname as approriate. We suggest creating a *new user* for this application and database.

  #  Copy an appropriate JDBC driver for your database into ${resin.dir}/lib. (In this case postgresql-8.3-604.jdbc4.jar)
  #  Copy se.war to ${resin.dir}/webapps/

== Integrate with your MTA ==

Please see the MtaGuide for specific instructions for your mail server.

== Startup ==

Start up Resin by running ${resin.dir}/bin/run.sh or run.bat. The default web interface is http://localhost:8080/se/. When SubEtha runs for the first time, it creates a site administrator account named " *root@localhost*", with the password " *password*".

*Change the administrator password immediately*. This can be done from the web interface. In addition, change the site properties as described in the AdminGuide.

You are now ready to continue with the AdminGuide.